Hi,
guys.
Welcome backs in this video,
we're going to discuss the spin button control to spin button control.
It's got the same formatting or the same inputs when you try to format it as the scroll bar
control.
Except for the page change,
which is,
you know,
when you click in the middle of the scoreboard,
controls has got two buttons where if you click the button,
the has the up direction,
it increments up.
And if you click a button having the down direction order facing down,
basically it will,
um they will increments down.
It will increment lower with the incremental change.
So a zika NSEERS got a minimum value,
a maximum value and an incremental change doesn't have a page change,
and it's gotta sell Link.
Okay,
I've got here.
Ah,
ah,
loan calculator that built as an example on how to use the spin button you can see here.
We've got the loan amount,
the payments and the interest rate,
and what the monthly payment will be if you select this loan amount on payments and
interest rates.
So how much you're gonna pay per month?
Okay.
If we examine the first spin button,
I'm selecting the formatting for here.
You will see that the cell link is this cell,
okay?
And,
ah,
you'll see that there's there's an incremental change of only a five.
The reason for that is because the there is,
there are limitations on the implementation off the spin button control.
So the minimum can only be a zero on and maximum can only be 30,000 and the income on to
change between zero on 30,000 actually,
because the minimum and the maximum are between zero on 30,000 I cannot put anything more
ah than,
uh than that here on the minimum maximum value.
And because I want values here to appear,
there are more than 30,000.
Okay,
so what?
What I do is that I would link the spin button to this cell here,
and then this cell would simply take the number in this cellar multiplied by thousands.
Okay,
because I cannot if I want to reach this 115,000 figure here,
I cannot write it directly in the maximum value field here because the limit is between
zero and 30,000.
This is the limit.
Were off the numbers that you can put here in the spin button.
Okay.
This is why we're creating here some sort of an intermediate cell or a bridge cell that we
linked the spin button to it.
And then this cell just takes this the number in this cell and multiplies it by 1000.
Okay?
And I've put the incremental change by five,
and I'm multiplied by 1000 here.
That means that we increments by 5000 here on the loan amount.
Okay.
And,
ah,
put directly here.
Ah ah.
Put the number of payments are actually here in this cell and and linked the spin button to
this cell for the payments.
Because actually,
the months are well between the limits of zero on 30,000 and the incremental changes by six
months.
So you can take a loan and and have it for a year or a year and 1/2 2 years,
two years and 1/2 etcetera.
Okay.
And this is for four year and four years and 1/2.
54 months.
Okay.
And now there is something.
Also,
I need to ah,
explain about the interest rate.
Well,
the interest rate to get to 1%.
Okay,
to get a 1% you can either put one divided by 100 or 10 divided by 1000 or 100 divided by
10,000.
Okay.
However,
if we put one divided by 100 ah,
we will not be able to increment with the small in Currence such as open 05%.
Also,
the case if we put 10 divided by 1000 if you put the 1% is 10 defied,
divided by 1000.
So I'm just gonna It is straight that for you here,
um,
this spin button here are built,
okay?
And I put the minimum value as a 10 and the maximum value is 150.
Okay.
And if we divide this,
these figures 10 by but by 1000.
If I divide 10 by 1000 they'll give the 1% if a divide 1 50 boy ah,
That would give the 15% okay,
15% interest.
So if I built it this way with this,
um,
spin button year and I link the spin button to this cell,
okay?
And I divide the amount,
um,
nor the number in this cell by 1000.
Okay,
So what would happen is that we would be only able to do,
like 5.5% 6% 6.5% 7%.
7.5% insider will be able to increment up by only opened 5%.
And that's okay if that's all what you need.
You don't wanna do 8.25% for example eight point 2%.
8.15%.
If you don't want to do that,
then absolutely go for it.
That's fine.
Over if you need more precise,
um,
selection or ah,
like if you need to have,
ah finer percentage or,
you know,
more precise selection of the percentage of the loan.
So you do like 2.25%.
2.3%.
2.35% 2.4%.
You know,
if you want to do this,
it's better to do it,
or you won't be able to achieve that except if you do 1% as 100 divided by 10,000.
So that means if we'd write like red click on this spin button and do a formal control
press,
former control here would be having the limits between 115,000.
And of course,
they are linked to this cell.
Okay,
And this is Ah,
this is the cell here that is in commended by the spin button.
And then this cell simply takes the number in this cell here and divides it by 10,000.
To be able to achieve that.
And you'll see also that the incremental changes by a five when five is divided by 10 1000
you be able to achieve an incremental change of open old 5% which is open 05 divided by Ah
,
Okay,
so you can try it.
Guys,
please try to practice it to ah,
be ableto even understand it better or on If you try to practice that the concept will
stick to your head better basically.
Okay,
so this is a simple use of the spin button.
I typically don't use the spin button a lot in on my dashboards.
It's mainly used to incriminate numbers here.
Really?
I don't use it a lot.
I think people who,
um who use it are more use it more for for making forms for people to enter data like to
select numbers like this to increment them.
And so and normally,
uh,
are typically in these forms to be locking these cells.
Okay,
so they be right clicking on them,
collecting,
clicking and clicking on form it sells,
and them on the protection.
They would leave this this as locked,
OK?
And then they would lock the sheet by clicking on review tab on the ribbon and think they
can protect sheet here.
Um,
i'll be making ah video for for protecting sheets and workbooks.
One more thing.
I need to adhere.
Goings is that normally you be,
ah,
hiding the cells containing these bridge numbers or bridge selling cell links here.
So what you would do is that you would simply hide this column here if you're making ah
riel form and a real dashboard,
um,
to present it to,
ah,
client or customer.
So because you don't want them to see these breach cells,
you condone also,
uh,
make the funds invisible,
make it ah,
white fund,
for example,
in a white background so that you know,
it wouldn't have a color,
and the user wouldn't see them.
And of course,
as we explained you be locking these numbers is if you don't want them to under the numbers
manually.
Just want them to enter them.
Enter the numbers.
Um,
toe,
enter the numbers through the spin button.
You be locking these cells and locking these cells so that the only these air only be able
to enter the numbers through.
Ah,
the spin bone.
So thank you,
guys,
for watching this video.
Please follow me on to the next video.